решение соревнования https://www.kaggle.com/arashnic/banking-loan-prediction

Context
A digital arm of a bank faces challenges with lead conversions. The primary objective of this division is to increase customer acquisition through digital channels. The division was set up a few years back and the primary focus of the division over these years has been to increase the number of leads getting into the conversion funnel.

They source leads through various channels like search, display, email campaigns and via affiliate partners. As expected, they see differential conversion depending on the sources and the quality of these leads.

They now want to identify the leads' segments having a higher conversion ratio (lead to buying a product) so that they can specifically target these potential customers through additional channels and re-marketing. They have provided a partial data set for customers loan history from the last 3 months. They also capture basic details about customers.

Content
Dataset spitted to the train and test with following features:

ID : Unique Customer ID

Gender : Gender of the applicant

DOB : Date of Birth of the applicant

LeadCreationDate : Date on which Lead was created

City_Code : Anonymised Code for the City

City_Category: Anonymised City Feature

Employer_Code: Anonymised Code for the Employer

Employer_Category1 : Anonymised Employer Feature

Employer_Category2: Anonymised Employer Feature

Monthly_Income : Monthly Income in Dollars

CustomerExistingPrimaryBankCode : Anonymised Customer Bank Code

PrimaryBankType: Anonymised Bank Feature

Contacted: Contact Verified (Y/N)

Source : Categorical Variable representing source of lead

Source_Category: Type of Source

Existing_EMI : EMI of Existing Loans in Dollars

Loan_Amount: Loan Amount Requested

Loan_Period: Loan Period (Years)

Interest_Rate: Interest Rate of Submitted Loan Amount

EMI: EMI of Requested Loan Amount in dollars

Var1: Anonymized Categorical variable with multiple levels

Approved: (Target) Whether a loan is Approved or not (1-0) . Customer is Qualified Lead or not (1-0)

Domain Specific Knowledge:

A marketing lead is a person who shows interest in a brand's products or services, which makes the person a potential customer. The primary goal of any company is to generate as many leads as possible. A company must guide prospects down the sales funnel with relevant content and offers towards their purchase.
In this dataset and use case we supposed the strategy of marketing division of the bank to identify Qualified Lead and Potential Customers is identifying by loan requested as an offer and approving requesters as leads' segments having a higher conversion ratio to be customers .

Read More: What is a Marketing Lead? - Definition and Guide

Inspiration
Predict the probability of customers conversion in the next 30 days
